
                               








                                                      
 
                                                                    NEELU! Neelu!” cried Binya.
                                                         She scrambled barefoot over the rocks, ran over the short summer grass,

                                                          up and over the brow of the hill, all the time calling “Neelu, Neelu!”
                                                          Neelu—Blue—was the name of the blue-grey cow. The other cow, which was
                                                          white, was called Gori, meaning Fair One. They were fond of wandering off on
                                                          their own, down to the stream or into the pine forest, and sometimes they came back
                                                          by themselves and sometimes they stayed away—almost deliberately, it seemed to
                                                          Binya.
                                                          If the cows didn’t come home at the right time, Binya would be sent to fetch them.
                                                          sometimes her brother Bijju went with her, but these days he was busy preparing for
                                                          his exams and didn’t have time to help with the cows.
                                                          Binya liked being on her own, and sometimes she allowed the cows to lead her
                                                          into some distant valley, and then they would all be late coming home. The cows
                                                          preferred having Binya with them, because she let them wander. Bijju pulled them
                                                          by their tails if they went too far.
                                                          Binya belonged to the mountains, to this part of the Himalayas known as
                                                          Garhwal. Dark forests and lonely hilltops held no terrors for her. It was only when
                                                          she was in the market-town, jostled by the crowds in the bazaar, that she felt rather
                                                          nervous and lost. The town, five miles from the village, was also a pleasure resort
                                                          for tourists from all over India.
                                                          Binya was probably ten. She may have been nine or even eleven, she couldn’t be
                                                          sure because no one in the village kept birthdays; but her mother told her she’d been
                                                          born during a winter when the snow had come up to the windows, and that was just
                                                          over ten years ago, wasn’t it? Two years later her father had died; but his passing
                                                          had made no difference to their way of life. They had three tiny terraced fields on
                                                          the side of the mountain, and they grew potatoes, onions, ginger, beans, mustard and
                                                          maize: not enough to sell in the town, but enough to live on.
                                                          Like most mountain girls, Binya was quite sturdy, fair of skin, with pink cheeks
                                                          and dark eyes and her black hair tied in a pigtail. She wore pretty glass bangles on
                                                          her wrists, and a necklace of glass beads. From the necklace hung a leopard’s claw.
                                                          It was a lucky charm, and Binya always wore it. Bijju had one, too, only his was
                                                          attached to a string.
                                                          Binya’s full name was Binyadevi, and Bijju’s real name was vijay, but everyone
                                                          called them Binya and Bijju. Binya was two years younger than her brother.

