    She had stopped calling for Neelu; she had heard the cow-bells tinkling, and

knew the cows hadn’t gone far. Singing to herself, she walked over fallen pine-
needles into the forest glade on the spur of the hill. She heard voices, laughter, the

clatter of plates and cups; and stepping through the trees, she came upon a party of
picnickers.
They were holiday-makers from the plains. The women were dressed in bright
saris, the men wore light summer shirts, and the children had pretty new clothes.
Binya, standing in the shadows between the trees, went unnoticed; and for some time
she watched the picnickers, admiring their clothes, listening to their unfamiliar
accents, and gazing rather hungrily at the sight of all their food. And then her gaze
came to rest on a bright blue umbrella, a frilly thing for women, which lay open on
the grass beside its owner.
Now Binya had seen umbrellas before, and her mother had a big black umbrella
which nobody used any more because the field-rats had eaten holes in it, but this was
the first time Binya had seen such a small, dainty, colourful umbrella; and she fell in
love with it. The umbrella was like a flower, a great blue flower that had sprung up
on the dry brown hillside.
She moved forward a few paces so that she could see the umbrella better. As she
came out of the shadows into the sunlight, the picnickers saw her.
“Hello, look who’s here!” exclaimed the older of the two women. “A little village
girl!”
“Isn’t she pretty?” remarked the other. “But how torn and dirty her clothes are!” it
did not seem to bother them that Binya could hear and understand everything they
said about her.
“They’re very poor in the hills,” said one of the men.
“Then let’s give her something to eat.” And the older woman beckoned to Binya
to come closer.
Hesitantly, nervously, Binya approached the group. Normally she would have
turned and fled; but the attraction was the pretty blue umbrella. It had cast a spell
over her, drawing her forward almost against her will.
“What’s that on her neck?” asked the younger woman.
“A necklace of sorts.”
“It’s a pendant—see, there’s a claw hanging from it!”
“It’s a tiger’s claw,” said the man beside her. (He had never seen a tiger’s claw.)
“A lucky charm. These people wear them to keep away evil spirits.” He looked to
Binya for confirmation, but Binya said nothing.
“Oh, I want one too!” said the woman, who was obviously his wife.
“You can’t get them in shops.”
“Buy hers, then. Give her two or three rupees, she’s sure to need the money.”
The man, looking slightly embarrassed but anxious to please his young wife,


                                   pg:2