                                         





                                                 INYA seldom closed the blue umbrella. Even when she had it in the house, she
                                                 left it lying open in a corner of the room. Sometimes Bijju snapped it shut,
                                                 complaining that it got in the way. She would open it again a little later. It wasn’t
                                                 beautiful when it was closed.
                                                 Whenever Binya went out—whether it was to graze the cows, or fetch water from
                                                 the spring, or carry milk to the little tea shop on the Tehri road—she took the
                                                 umbrella with her. That patch of skyblue silk could always be seen on the hillside.
                                                 Old Ram Bharosa (Ram the Trustworthy) kept the tea shop on the Tehri road. It
                                                 was a dusty, unmetalled road. Once a day, the Tehri bus stopped near his shop and
                                                 passengers got down to sip hot tea or drink a glass of curds. He kept a few bottles of
                                                 Coca-cola too; but as there was no ice, the bottles got hot in the sun and so were
                                                 seldom opened. He also kept sweets and toffees, and when Binya or Bijju had a few
                                                 coins to spare they would spend them at the shop. It was only a mile from the
                                                 village.
                                                 Ram Bharosa was astonished to see Binya’s blue umbrella.
                                                 “What have you there, Binya?” he asked.
                                                 Binya gave the umbrella a twirl and smiled at Ram Bharosa. She was always
                                                 ready with her smile, and would willingly have lent it to anyone who was feeling
                                                 unhappy.
                                                 “That’s a lady’s umbrella,” said Ram Bharosa. “That’s only for Mem-Sahibs.
                                                  Where did you get it?”
                                                 “Someone gave it to me—for my necklace.”
                                                  “You exchanged it for your lucky claw!”
                                                  Binya nodded.
                                                  “But what do you need it for? The sun isn’t hot enough—and it isn’t meant for
                                                  the rain. It’s just a pretty thing for rich ladies to play with!”
                                                  Binya nodded and smiled again. Ram Bharosa was quite right; it was just a
                                                  beautiful plaything. And that was exactly why she had fallen in love with it.
                                                  “I have an idea,” said the shopkeeper. “It’s no use to you, that umbrella. Why not
                                                  sell it to me? I’ll give you five rupees for it.”
                                                   “It’s worth fifteen,” said Binya.
                                                   “Well, then, I’ll give you ten.”
                                                    Binya laughed and shook her head.
                                                  “Twelve rupees?” said Ram Bharosa, but without much hope.
               
                                                                              pg:4